Here's how this cycle-detection algorithm works, and a bug worth catching before you rely on it.

Building the graph

Since the input is just a raw list of edges, the first step converts it into an adjacency list (graph). Because this is an undirected graph, each edge [x, y] gets added both ways: y is pushed into x's neighbor list, and x into y's.

The core idea: DFS with parent tracking

In an undirected graph, you can't detect a cycle just by noticing "I've already visited this neighbor" — because every edge is bidirectional, the node you just came from will always show up as an already-visited neighbor. That's not a cycle, that's just walking back the way you came.

So the trick is to track each node's parent (the node you arrived from) alongside the usual visited set:

If a neighbor hasn't been visited yet, recurse into it, passing the current node as its parent.
If a neighbor has been visited, but it's not your parent, that means you've reached a node through a completely different path than the one that already discovered it — which is only possible if a cycle exists.

Base case: dfs(0, -1) starts at node 0 with -1 as a placeholder parent (since node 0 has no real parent).






The bug

Inside the loop over neighbors, when a neighbor hasn't been visited yet, the code does:

js
return dfs(neighbor, curr);

This returns immediately — regardless of whether that recursive call found a cycle or not. That means as soon as the first unvisited neighbor is processed, the loop stops entirely, and any other neighbors of curr never get checked at all.

Concretely, this breaks as soon as a node has two unvisited branches where the cycle only exists in the second one. Example:

edges = [[0,1],[0,4],[4,5],[5,6],[6,4]]

Here node 4 is part of a real cycle (4→5→6→4), but node 0's first neighbor is 1 (a dead-end branch with no cycle). Because of the early return, the code returns dfs(1, 0)'s result (false) immediately and never even looks at neighbor 4 — so hasCycle would incorrectly report false even though a cycle exists.

The fix — exactly what your own comment already suggests as the alternative:

js
if (!visited.has(neighbor)) {
    if (dfs(neighbor, curr)) {
        return true;
    }
} else if (neighbor != parent) {
    return true;
}

This way, if one branch comes back false, the loop keeps going to check the other neighbors before giving up and returning false at the end.

Complexity (once fixed): O(V + E) time and space, since every node and edge is visited at most once.